#DAY 1 -

1. what is css 
2. how to link css with html
3. css ko kaise likhte hai 
4. boilerplate of CSS:

*{
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    box-sizing: border-box;
}

html,body{
    height: 100%;
    width: 100%;
}

5. targeting an element or a tag 
6. color , bg color , font size , font style , font family , font weight , text align , text transform.
7. how to download font from google . 
8. how to downlaod font from anu website. 
9. how to apply custom fonts .
10. id and classes.(for id we use # , and for class we use '.')

-we can apply properties of diffrent id and classs on a same element.
-div is a container , and used to make rectangular shapes.

#DAY 2 -

1. how to color a div.
2. height and width of a div,
3. color of div.
4. Gradients - linear , radial , coniacal.
5. margin , padding , border , border radius , border color .
6. background , background image , size , repeat ,postion.

#DAY 3-

1. position - absolute, relative, fixed, sticky ,top , bottom , left , right.
2. transform properties - translate (x and y), rotate, scale, skew.
3. hover , transition . 

- koi bhi element jispe position nahi hai uspar top left bottom and z-index ki property kaam nahi karti .
- koi bhi element pr absolute lagane se wo upar uth jata hai , uski space khali ho jaati hai and uski jagah pe baad wala element aa jata hai .
- top , left , bottom , right and z-index ye sirf kaam karti hai jab aapke element k pass koi position ho jaise ki - absolute , relative , sticky , fixed.
- absolute se wo box ke upar uth jata hai orr kahi bhi jaa skta hai pure body me .
- relative me wo jiss box ya div me banaya hai usi k andar hi move krega , uske bahar nahi jaa payega .
- kisi bhi position ko aapne diya to wo by default relative hi kaam karti hai .

#DAY 4-
 
 1. positioning of elements and div.
 2. made project 2nd.

#DAY 5-

1.flex
2. align items , justify content .

- display flex dene se content rows and coulmns me devide ho jata hai orr ek saath ek line me align ho jaate hai.
- align-items se apan Y-axis pr handel krte hai .
flex-start - top of the flexbox.
flex-end - bottom of the flexbox.
- justify-content se apan X-asis pr handel krte hai .
flex-start - left end of the flexbox.
flex-end - right end of the flexbox.
(center is used to align in center)

#note - flex end and start are used with respect to justify and align items property to align them in X and Y axis.

space-between is used to make spaces between them.

#DAY 6-
use of flex. 
made project 3.

#DAY 7-

1. transform translate using in x and y axis. 
2. flex direction using (Row and column).
default flex direction is row.
3. using gap.
4. flex flexible div banate hai orr unka size shrink ho skta hai.
so , flexibility ko hatane k liye use hota hai (flex-wrap).
5. apan particular div ka size shrink control krr skte hai with property (flex-shrink:).
6. orr agar apan kisi ko bhi shrink nahi krenge to items overflow hone lag jaayenge orr display se bahar nikalne lag jaayenge.
to isko control krne k liye property use hoti hai- (Overflow) , orr iss se apan scroll kar paayenge.
7. Hoever.
8. property of using cursor:pointer .

#DAY 8-
1. rotation using transform , rotation can be used in X,Y,Z axis .
2. perspective is used to change the perspective of angle of view or refrence of position from where u are watching the object.
3. scale is used to scale the images and objects we are using in our website , we can change the size by using scale.
4. overflow:hidden , this property is used to hide the overflow of content from any div. 
5. transition: all(to set transition to all css properties of that particualr objedt ) , ease and then time (1s) like for how much time you want the transition.

Made project 5 . 
all transition , hover and flex positioning features are used , best to understand these concepts .

#DAY 9-

- Headings, paragraphs , divs are block elements , they cover the entire horizontal space.
- image , anchor tags are inline elements , they do not cover the entire horizontal space.
1. so we use (display:inline-block) , to make the block elements inline elememts. 
2. rotate property do no work on anchor tag.
3. .class_name*number_of_class - it use to make multiple classes at a time, to make the work flow fast.
4. .class:nth-child(class_number) - it is use to target that class from starting. 
5. .class:nth-last-child(class_number) - it is used to target nth child from last.  
6. display grid , grid template row and column , we can config the ratios of rows and columns from this property.
7. Background-clip:text - To add image in text.
- to use background clip we have to use (color as transparent).
- also we can use image ,gif, gradient by simply using background-clip property.
- GIF can be used same as pasting GIF url in background-image.
8.  -webkit-text-stroke - this is used to give border and border collor to text.
9. In overflow auto , we seee a scroll bar , now to remove that we use 

.parent1::-webkit-scrollbar{
    display: none;
}
this is used to hide the scroll bar.
- also we can change the color of scroll bar by using (backgroundcolor) to change the color of scrol bar.

#DAY 10-

1. semantic tags - header, footer, nav, aside, article, section.
- they improve accessibilitiy, SEO, and code readability by giving structure and meaning to web page content. 
2. .parent#child$*10 - it will make 10 divs with id- child1 , child2 ,... in a div of class parent.
3. grid-template-areas: this is used to name the areas to particular divs.
-then to use these area use (grid-area: name of area) in that particular grid , you want to use that area.
- area k name likhte time total rows or total coumns co count kiya jata hai , uske baad area asign krna hota hai. 

#DAY 11-
1.units-
~px(pixels) -fixed
~ %(Percentage) -depends on parent.
~ Vw(viewport width) -depends on viewport's  width.
~ vh(viewport height) -depends upon viewport height.
~ vmax(viewport maximum) -depends upon maximum viewport.
~ vmin(viewport minimum) -depends upon minimum viewport.
~ em -relative to the font size of its own nearest ancestor[defined font size]. If a parent has font-size: 16px, then 1em in the child equals 16px, and 2em equals 32px.
    Use for: -Button ,Padding relative to its own font size.
             -Icons or spacing inside components.
~ rem(root em) 1rem = 16 px. Fixed reference: Even if deeply nested, 1rem always refers back to the root(<html>) size (typically defaulting to 16px in most browsers).
                             Use for : Margins, Paddings(between sections)
                             Predictability: It avoids the compounding issues of em, making it easier to manage consistent spacing and sizing across a whole project.

2. their are 2 types of units - 1.absolute  , 2. Relative
-Absolute - these are fixed units and do not change their values.
px, cm, pt, mm, in.
-Relative - these units can change their values , with refrence to other units. 
% , vw, vh, rem, em, vmin, vmax.

3. html , body , section , main - they all have a default font size of 16px.                          

#DAY 12-

1. Using SCSS.
- it works on phenomenon of converting the the CSS code also it makes the style.css file , when CSS code is written in the SCSS file.

2.font-style:system ui.
3.Nesting - in SCSS,you can write selectors inside other sectors.
          - This mimcs the structure of your HTMl and makes code clener.

4.Mixins -A mixin is like a reusable styles for CSS rules.
         -Helps avoid code repetation.
         -Can take arguments to make it dynamic.
         - to use this - refer to this template-
           @mixin flexcenter(){
           display: flex;
           align-items: center;
           justify-content: center;
           backgroundcolor-red
           } 
         - these are the properties may be repeated in multiple divs so we can give this mixin to parent.
         - and to call them in the child divs we use.
           -@include flexcenter(); 
 - Making variable ->
         - @mixin flexcenter($bg-color){
                            display: flex;
                            align-items: center;
                            justify-content: center;
                            backgroundcolor-bg-color
                            } 
                        - here ($) is used to make variable , later it can be used.
                        -- to use the variable --

                        #id_1{
                            @include flexcenter(blue) - here the variable is set to blue in background color of id_1.
                        }
                        #id_2{
                            @include flexcenter(red) - similarily here the background color will be set to red.
                        }


5. Partials and imports -Paartials: small SCSS files(starts with_)to split your code(e.g. _headre.scss, _footer.scss)
                        -Imports: Use @import to bring all partials into one main file.
                        - Keeps project modular & easy to maintain.
                        -(_name.scss) file k na to koi MAP file banegi na hi koi CSS file banegi.

6. Flex-Grow -flex-grow is a CSS property for CSS Flexbox, defining how much a flex item expands to fill extra space in a container, with a default of 0 (no growth). Items with flex-grow: 1 share space equally, while flex-grow: 2 takes twice as much as flex-grow: 1, distributing remaining space proportionally to their values. It's used with flex-shrink and flex-basis for flexible layouts that adapt to screen sizes, often via the flex shorthand. 

#DAY 13 -
1. Learning Responsive. 
2. Viewport ek aisa area hai jo browser provide krta hai jisme tum apni website ko dikha sakte ho.
3. Fluid Typography -
    Responsive Typography - clamp() with vw and px.
                          - clamp(lower limit , value , upperlimit)
4. opacity - it is use to change the transparency of text(by default opacity : 1).
5. line-height - it is used to give the diffrence btw lines of any para (by default line-height: 1).
6. @media(min-width:__) - media querry is used to give a limit to any property to run.
          expample- @media (min-width:600px){
            main{
               backgroundcolor:red
            }
          }
        - here the background color will be changed to (red) when the width of main section will become 600 orr more than 600.
        basicaly (media querry) holds the change value for a limit.
7. to make responsive for 4k resolution we give property (max-width : 1600px), from this width of content will not extend after 1600 px.
 - and use ( justify content : center ) for 4k display.

# DAY 14 - 
1. aspect-ratio : to divide image or any div in ratio of height and width.
  - example- aspect-ratio: 1/1 (this means a square.)

2. backdrop-filter: blur(5px ) ; it use to make any background-color blur such that content behind the background will visible blury.
3. width: fill content; -it is used to give width to div exact to the content inside the div.
    - its mainly used for icons , such that they can be seperated easily.
4. (&nbsp) - this is written between words to giva a fake space between words of any para or heading.
